Thank you for considering Shaderc development!  Please make sure you review
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for important preliminary info.

## Building

Instructions for first-time building can be found in [`README.md`](README.md).
Incremental build after a source change can be done using `ninja` (or
`cmake --build`) and `ctest` exactly as in the first-time procedure.

## Code reviews

(Terminology: we consider everyone with write access to our GitHub repo a
project _member_.)

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review.  We
use GitHub pull requests to facilitate the review process.  A submission may be
accepted by any project member (other than the submitter), who will then squash
the changes into a single commit and cherry-pick them into the repository.

Before accepting, there may be some review feedback prompting changes in the
submission.  You should expect reviewers to strictly insist on the
[commenting](http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cppguide.html#Comments)
guidelines -- in particular, every file, class, method, data member, and global
will require a comment.  Reviewers will also expect to see test coverage for
every code change.  _How much_ coverage will be a judgment call on a
case-by-case basis, balancing the required effort against the incremental
benefit.  But coverage will be expected.  As a matter of development philosophy,
we will strive to engineer the code to make writing tests easy.

## Coding style

For our C++ files, we use the
[Google C++ style guide](http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cppguide.html).
(Conveniently, the formatting rules it specifies can be achieved using
`clang-format -style=google`.)

For our Python files, we use the
[Google Python style guide](https://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html).

## Supported platforms

We expect Shaderc to always build and test successfully on the platforms listed
below.  Please keep that in mind when offering contributions.  This list will
likely grow over time.

* Linux x86

## glslang

Some Shaderc changes require concomitant changes to glslang.  It is our policy
to upstream such work to glslang by following the official glslang project's
procedures.  At the same time, we would like to have those changes available to
all Shaderc developers immediately upon passing our code review.  Currently this
is best done by maintaining
[our own GitHub fork](https://github.com/google/glslang) of glslang, landing
Shaderc-supporting changes there<sup>\*</sup>, building Shaderc against it, and
generating pull requests from there to the glslang's original GitHub repository.
Although a separate repository, this should be treated as essentially a part of
Shaderc: the Shaderc master should always<sup>\**</sup> build against our
glslang fork's master.

Changes made to glslang in the course of Shaderc development must build and test
correctly on their own, independently of Shaderc code, so they don't break other
users of glslang when sent upstream.  We will periodically upstream the content
of our fork's `master` branch to the official glslang `master` branch, so all
the contributions we accept will find their way to glslang.

We aim to keep our fork up to date with the official glslang by pulling their
changes frequently and merging them into our `master` branch.

<hr><small>

\*: Please note that GitHub uses the term "fork" as a routine part of
[contributing to another project](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#types-of-collaborative-development-models),
_not_ in the sense of scary open-source schism.  This is why you'll hear us
speak of "our fork" and see "forked from KhronosGroup/glslang" atop the
[google/glslang](https://github.com/google/glslang) GitHub page.  It does _not_
mean that we're divorcing our glslang development from the original -- quite the
opposite.  As stated above, we intend to upstream all our work to the original
glslang repository.

\*\*: with one small exception: if a Shaderc and glslang pull requests need each
other and are simultaneously cherry-picked, then a `HEAD`s inconsistency will be
tolerated for the short moment that one has landed while the other hasn't.
